Let us look at the difference between global and local variables.
These are the commonly used terms in programming, global variables and local variables.
So for that I have a sample piece of code here.
Let us read the code and understand it for us.
Then I can show you the differences between them.
See, this is the main function.
Main function?
And is it having any variables?
No, there is no variable here, but g assign 15.
So it is g g is here, but it's outside the function.
It's neither in fun nor in main function.
See, these are two different functions I have.
It's not any one of these.
So it is separate.
Can you have a variable outside all the functions?
Yes.
Such variables are called as global variable.
They are accessible there.
They are accessible in all the functions of your program.
So they are accessible in function fun also and they're accessible in function main also so they can
be used anywhere.
These are global variables.
Then if I continue reading this one g assign 15.
So this variable is becoming 15 and is 15 now then called function fun fun end eight.
What is this variable?
This belonged to function fun and it is a local variable.
So we already know about them that those variables are located in the mean memory whenever the function
is called and DL located whenever the function terminates.
So this variable is local to our function.
Let us continue g assign g plus a five.
Five is added to this one so this becomes 20.
Okay then see how g 20 is displayed.
Then functions come back g plus plus.
So this becomes 21 and here 21 is pretend doing nothing.
Just as a sample code.
I have written to show you that this variable can be accessed in any one of these function.
So this is a global variable and this is a local variable.
A variable inside the function is local and the variable outside all the functions is global.
And even if I declare some variable here x, then this is local to main function.
This is this is also a local variable.
So the variables inside the functions are local, the variables outside the functions are global.
Now let us know their differences.
First local variables.
They are not accessible in other function.
They belong to that function in which they are declared.
First point, then second point.
They remain in the memory as long as the function is running.
Once the function ends, they are terminated.
Two points then what about the global variable?
Global variables are accessible in all the functions of a program.
That's the first thing.
Then the second thing.
How long they are there?
As long as the program is running, they are there in the memory.
They are there in the memory.
Now, let us see.
We know this memory area and this we call it as code section and this we call it as a stack.
And this we call it as he.
Now, if I use those to function, function, fun and function mean, then how this code will work.
Let us see first thing where the global variable, where the memory for the global variable is created.
Where do you think?
Is it inside the stack or inside the heap?
If it is inside the stack, then does it belong to function fund or main function?
No memory for those global variables is located inside the code section, so actually not here.
We show it like this.
A small piece of memory is belonging to the code section only, which is meant for keeping global variables.
So we show it like this and the initial size is zero.
So code section is from here to here.
This whole thing is a code section.
So instead of creating any confusion to make it more clear, I will show it here.
I'll show it here.
Inside the code section.
OC.
If you read four books or if you check somewhere on online, you can find some diagrams.
Where about the code section?
There's a small section, there's a part of code section only subsection of code section that is for
global variables.
So but I'm showing it directly here.
This is easy for remembering and understanding it.
Avoid all confusions that is created in code section.
That's it.
Then whatever you say, I want to run the program program gets loaded here at loading time.
Only they will get the memory.
Now let me continue execution.
First of all, main function is called main function is having one dummy variable.
I have taken it just for the sake of this diagram.
I have taken this variable.
So four main x is created having value ten this is for main.
The next is g assign 15 so main can access this one and it will become 15.
Then function one is called this function phone is called.
Then it is having its own variable function fun a and this is having value five.
Yes, next line is G, assign g plus A.
So this becomes 115 plus five.
That is 20.
So this becomes 20 C function one is also accessing this one, then c g so the value 20 is displayed
now function ends, all lines end.
Once the function ends, it's memory is g located, g is still there.
See you can see how how long the variable E was there in the memory, as long as this function was running.
But what about G?
Is there always I don't have to show you the remaining part now.
So this is the difference between global and local variable.
I have given you the points and I have also shown you where they are created inside the main memory.
So we use global variables a lot of times declaring global variables as a common practice of programmers.
They use it when they don't find a right place for a variable.
The thing that it should be accessible by most of the functions.
Then you make it as global.
So let us try this and see.